3.3: Improve and extend the security checklist (#2571)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/guide/security_checklist.md

- Introduce password quality checks. Make sure the checks are strict enough (length/complexity).
- 16 characters is a quite secure minimum length. Don't go below 10.
- If using [[= product_name =]] v4.5 or newer, enable the password rule that rejects any password which has been exposed in a public breach.

!!! tip "Password rules"

    See [setting up password rules](passwords.md#password-rules).

### Protect against brute force attacks

Consider introducing a measure against brute force login attacks, like CAPTCHA.
Adjust timeout limits to your needs:

When using the "forgot password" feature, a token is created which expires if the user doesn't click the password reset link that gets mailed to them in time.
The time before it expires is set in the parameter `ezsettings.default.security.token_interval_spec`.
By nature this feature must be available to users before they have logged in, including would-be attackers.
If an attacker uses this feature with someone else's email address, the attacker doesn't receive the email.
But they could still try to guess the password reset link.
That's why this interval should be as short as possible.
5 minutes is often enough.

> This timeout is entered as a [PHP DateInterval duration strings](https://www.php.net/manual/en/dateinterval.construct.php).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This timeout is entered as a [PHP DateInterval duration string](https://www.php.net/manual/en/dateinterval.construct.php).
```

Any user leaving the organization must be disabled without delay.
If a user takes on a new role in the organization, any required role changes for them in [[= product_name =]] must also be made as soon as possible.

### Strong passwords

Enforce strong passwords for all users.
This is specially important for admin accounts and other privileged users.

- Never go online with admin password set to `publish` or any other default value.
- Introduce password quality checks. Make sure the checks are strict enough (length/complexity).
- 16 characters is a quite secure minimum length. Don't go below 10.
- If using [[= product_name =]] v4.5 or newer, enable the password rule that rejects any password which has been exposed in a public breach.

!!! tip "Password rules"

    See [setting up password rules](passwords.md#password-rules).

### Protect against brute force attacks

Consider introducing a measure against brute force login attacks, like CAPTCHA.
Adjust timeout limits to your needs:

When using the "forgot password" feature, a token is created which expires if the user doesn't click the password reset link that gets mailed to them in time.

> The time before it expires is set in the parameter `ibexa.site_access.config.default.security.token_interval_spec`.

Author: @glye I'm confused with this one.

- https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-user/blob/v2.3.12/src/bundle/Resources/config/ezplatform_default_settings.yaml#L3 looks like the one I'm looking for.
- https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-user/blob/v2.3.12/src/bundle/DependencyInjection/Configuration/Parser/Security.php#L20-L24 looks outdated
- https://doc.ibexa.co/en/3.3/release_notes/ez_platform_v3.0_deprecations/#event-names-changed has it as renamed JS event name?!?

```suggestion
The time before it expires is set in the parameter `ezsettings.default.security.token_interval_spec`.
```

By nature this feature must be available to users before they have logged in, including would-be attackers.
If an attacker uses this feature with someone else's email address, the attacker doesn't receive the email.
But they could still try to guess the password reset link.
That's why this interval should be as short as possible.
5 minutes is often enough.

> [[= product_name =]] allows you to create and send invitations to create an account in the frontend as a customer, the back office
> as an employee, or the Corporate Portal as a business partner.
> You can send invitations to individual users or in bulk.
> These invitations time out according to the parameter
> `ibexa.site_access.config.default.user_invitation.hash_expiration_time`.
> This can safely be longer than the "forgot password" time, since attackers cannot generate invitations.
> Don't leave it longer than it needs to be, though.
> 
> These timeouts are both entered as [PHP DateInterval duration strings](https://www.php.net/manual/en/dateinterval.construct.php).
> The forgot password feature defaults to "PT1H" (one hour).
> The account invitation feature defaults to "P7D" (seven days).

Author: This feature seems added circa 4.2 according to
https://github.com/ibexa/user/pull/35/files#diff-d7dd8ed9e114fd1e91bb9a9c4ee717a918265fa26cd2d152dbd14a909408fd59R40 and its ticket.

The remaining part may need rewording.

```suggestion
This timeout is entered as [PHP DateInterval duration strings](https://www.php.net/manual/en/dateinterval.construct.php).
The forgot password feature defaults to "PT1H" (one hour).
```

Reviewer: Nice catch. Edit looks good. Maybe "as a [PHP DateInterval duration string]"

### Disable Varnish when using Fastly

If you're using Fastly, disable Varnish.
See [Security advisory: EZSA-2020-002](https://developers.ibexa.co/security-advisories/ezsa-2020-002-unauthorised-cache-purge-with-misconfigured-fastly).

### Block upload of unwanted file types

> The `ibexa.site_access.config.default.io.file_storage.file_type_blacklist` setting is defined in the config file `src/bundle/Core/Resources/config/default_settings.yml` in the Core bundle.

Author: ```suggestion
The `ezsettings.default.io.file_storage.file_type_blacklist` setting is defined in the config file `src/bundle/Core/Resources/config/default_settings.yml` in the Core bundle.
```

- By default, a [Powered-By header](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/update_and_migration/from_1.x_2.x/update_db_to_2.5/#powered-by-header) is set. It specifies what version of the DXP is running. For example, `x-powered-by: [[= product_name_exp =]] v4`. This doesn't expose anything that couldn't be detected through other means. But if you wish to obscure this, you can either omit the version number, or disable the header entirely by setting `enabled: false`.

    ```yaml
    ibexa_system_info:
      system_info:
        powered_by:
          # major => v4 || minor => v4.6 || none
          release: major
          # true || false

>           enabled: false

Author: 3.3 might use https://github.com/ezsystems/ez-support-tools/blob/2.3/src/bundle/DependencyInjection/Configuration.php so config name has changed.
I'm investigating closer…

Author: According to my comparison of https://github.com/ibexa/system-info/blob/v4.6.14/src/bundle/DependencyInjection/Configuration.php and https://github.com/ezsystems/ez-support-tools/blob/v2.3.12/src/bundle/DependencyInjection/Configuration.php only the extension name change.

```suggestion
    ezplatform_support_tools:
      system_info:
        powered_by:
          # major => v4 || minor => v4.6 || none
          release: major
          # true || false
          enabled: false
```

Reviewer: The update doc confirms: https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/update_and_migration/from_1.x_2.x/update_db_to_2.5/#d-update-to-v25
